---
layout: post
title: How I started running during pandemic and why you should too
image: /assets/img/blog/running.jpg
description: >
  Staying in shape during pandemic can be a real challenge. I would love to share my journey about how I started running.
sitemap: false
---

# How I started running during pandemic and why you should too

Staying in shape during pandemic can be a real challenge. Home office, lockdowns and closed gyms give us limited possibilities on how to exercise. 

Some choose to workout at home or stay in small private basement gym, but for me it was really difficult.  I have tried working out from home many times, bought some equipment for making it easier, but I still do not enjoy to exercise in my flat. Normally, I would prefer doing weight training at a gym, but since the gyms are closed I had to come up with another plan.

Running was never my hobby, I hated it to be honest. Finally, I encouraged myself to give it a chance. 

In my country we had several lockdowns in autumn and thats the time when I have started with my new activity. It can be hard to run in cold weather, so I would like to give out some tips on how to overcome struggles. 

## Tips for running

### 1. Plan your route
Firstly you should find a pleasant route you would love to repeat in the future. Finding it might take few tries because you might find some problems which can make your run less enjoyable e.g. busy street, mud, car fumes. Choose places with limited traffic, closer to nature, the better. Plan your route to have as little dangerous crossings with road as possible.
It is also possible to run on a track, but I usually choose to run on a less busy streets near nature. 

### 2. Set realistic goals
Adding new activity into your lifestyle might be difficult, especially running. Many people give up when they realize how low their stamina is. It is because they have not evaluated themselves properly. Start with with a small goal, e.g. running 15 minutes instead of 30. You will see how your body reacts so you can adjust your plan. You will see that after few attempts you will be able to overcome longer distance. 

### 3. Dress well
Dressing up well is a key to success. In a cold weather it is even harder to choose appropriate outfit. I recommend to go to your closet and find some pieces that might work for you. It is not necessary to buy brand new running clothes from expensive store. 
Your outfit should consist of some layers. I prefer functional long sleeve top, fleece sweatshirt and outdoor jacket with hood. It is important to keep your head and upper body warm. You should also wear a hat and if you are ice princess like me the gloves are the must. For the bottom part I usually wear a leggings and knee warmers.
With pandemic there comes another dressing issue. You might think that compulsory **face masks** might be a big  problem for running, but I would like to assure you that it is not. Having your mouth covered in a cold weather helps to warm up air before you breath it in. That means there is smaller risk of having cold.  I choose to wear a balaclava underneath my beanie. 
### 4. Music
Everything is better with music. It is proven that listening to your favorite music during workout makes your perfomance better and you also feel better. Why not to make running even more enjoyable?
Create a playlist with your favorite powerful songs or find some taylored workout playlist on your music app.
### 5. Get a running app
Having records of your activities is very beneficial. You can keep track of your achievements. There are many gadgets that can help you and many of them are not expensive at all. You can use your smarthone, but for more data like heartbeat control there is huge variety of smartwatch. I use Garmin ones, but very cheap Xiaomi miBand 3 can also do a thing.

### 5. Hydration
Drinking enough water is not a new thing, but you should not forget about it. Always prepare your body to have enough water before your run. 

### 6. Regeneration
You should focus also on regeneration. After running you should supply your body with water. Don't forget to keep healthy diet sufficient in nutrients and vitamins. Some might welcome aminoacids or joint support supplements.
Give your body a rest and incorporate rest days into your training program.

### 7. Never with others
Sometimes you might feel upset seeing your friends sharing their running reports. Do not discourage yourself. You can do it too, but the progress takes some time. Everyone is different, there is no reason to let yourself down. Stick to your dreams.

## My final thoughts

I am very happy about my new hobby. I think I won't give up running after the gyms are open. This is the only good thing about covid - me figuring out how to start running and making it part of my daily routine. Since I have a sedentary job my sessions help me to clear out my mind and boost my body especially in the evening. I also appreciate my morning sessions at 6AM. After them I feel tired but also very energized.  